[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>: If you look at our past,
we were hunter gatherers
or gatherer hunters, depending
on the ecosystem that
our ancestors lived in.
And we ate what the
environment provided.
If we lived near a
lake, we ate fish.
If we lived near the ocean,
we were probably fishermen.
If we lived in the tropics,
we ate what was growing there.
If we lived in the
far north, we hunted.
But we ate seeds, we ate
insects, we ate nuts,
we ate plants mostly.
We had a very high fibrous diet
because the original plants
were much more high in
fiber than plants are today.
And the animal products
we ate were mostly
insects and grubs
and things like that.
But if we were able to catch
or kill a larger animal,
those were wild animals, and
they were very low in fat
and they were particularly
low in the storage
fats, the saturated fats that
we know are dangerous to us.
And their muscle
tissue was real.
I mean, they moved.
That's how they survived.
That's how they lived.
Today, though, modern meat,
animals are living in feedlots.
They're living in factory farms.
They are not allowed to move.
They don't develop
muscle tissue.
They're very high in fat.
And it's mostly storage
fats, highly saturated fats.
And they're also--
in order to keep
these animals alive
under these conditions,
these conditions
are so unnatural.
The animals are so
miserable that they
have to inject them
with antibiotics
or feed them antibiotics and
oftentimes use hormones as well.
And other chemicals, pesticides
to kill the flies that
are around and insecticides.
And so the meat
absorbs these poisons.
And then when modern meat
it's full of these things
that our historical meat
didn't have, including misery.
I mean, I don't know
how you quantify misery.
But anyone who sees how these
animals live in industrial meat
production and dairy production
knows that they're miserable.
And I don't want
misery on my menu.
And I think there is something
about that misery that
gets passed on.
And also they're
fed obesogenic diets
because the industry
wants them to gain weight
as rapidly as possible with
the least amount of food input.
So they want the weight
gain to food input ratio
to be as high as possible.
The diet is designed for that.
And the animals have
been bred for that.
Well, if we eat animals
that have been bred for that
and that have been fed a
diet designed for that,
is it any wonder
then that obesity
is rampant in our culture?
I think this contributes to it.
And when people say, oh,
but our ancestors ate meat,
and then they go
down to the butcher,
or to McDonald's and buy
that, they don't realize
how different metabolically,
nutritionally, energetically
that meat that they're
buying is from the meat
they're talking about our
ancestors having eaten.
Because what our ancestors
ate were wild animals.
The closest thing would be game.
And when people hunt deer,
I'm not a hunter myself.
I don't want-- I
don't believe in it.
But I will tell you this, I will
respect someone who is a hunter
and kills a deer, particularly
if they do it cleanly and he
eats everything from that
animal because we're going
to McDonald's and we don't--
we've normalized that.
We don't think about it.
But there's an
animal behind that.
And that animal lived
a life of torture,
not the free life of the deer.
So to me, the hunter
is actually more
ethical than the average
everyday consumer who's
unconscious of the fact
that the meat they're eating
came from an animal
whose life was
a disgrace to the
human-animal bond.
And it contains
substances like hormones,
like antibiotic residues, and
sometimes antibiotic resistant
bacteria that then
undermine our health.
And the difference in the
health implications and health
consequences of modern meat and
dairy products compared to what
our ancestors ate is enormous.
And it's painful to see.
And I respect those
who want to eat meat
and are doing their best
to get grass-fed and truly
pasture-raised animals.
Although even then
they're breeds
that have been bred for
maximum weight gain.
So I don't eat modern
meat at all, ever.
And I haven't in over 50 years.
If someone wants to eat animal
products as part of their diet,
the most ethical
and the healthiest
is wild fish, particularly
fish that is low mercury,
that is high in
omega-3 fatty acids.
Salmon, wild salmon, I'm
talking about sardines, herring,
mackerel.
These are fish that are
low in heavy metals,
low in contaminants, low
in pesticide residues,
and are high in
the types of fats
that our bodies need to thrive
and our brains need to thrive.
So that's the best.
And when you're
eating a wild fish,
you're eating a wild animal.
You're eating an animal.
It may be living
in polluted waters.
Unfortunately, we have treated
the oceans and rivers and lakes
like garbage dumps.
And so the waters of the world
are contaminated to an extent.
But there are fish that pick
up more of that and a fish
that pick up less than that.
And the fish I
mentioned are the ones
that pick up the least of it.
So, for example, a
wild Alaskan salmon
is one of the lowest fish in
mercury that you could find.
Most forms of tuna, on the other
hand, are very high in mercury.
And that's a big issue.
If you're going to
eat fish, you don't
want to take mercury
into your system.
What you want to eat,
though, is as many plants
as possible, as many fruits and
vegetables and seeds and nuts
as you can.
Some people do well with
whole grains, others don't.
That's a person-- you have
to listen to your own body
on all of these things.
Some people want to be vegans
and eat no animal products.
Some people want to eat
some animal products.
There's lots of variation
here on what's a healthy diet.
But a healthy diet does not
include the processed junk foods
that people eat today.
We've normalized that.
It's everywhere, but that
doesn't make it healthy
and that doesn't
make it good for us.
I grew up eating Sugar
Frosted Flakes for breakfast.
I know what that does.
And I would never
feed that to my kids
or want to see it fed to
kids or adults either.
I don't eat any factory
farm products ever.
And I haven't for over
50 years because I'm
a conscientious
objector to that,
that way of treating animals.
It's so cruel.
And it produces
products that are
harmful to us, that are so
different from the meats
that our ancestors
grew up eating.
There's paleo diets
where people want
to eat as our ancestors in
pre-agricultural times did.
They didn't domesticate animals.
They didn't drink
the milk of an animal
because they didn't control
the lives of animals.
When we eat modern meats
and dairy products and eggs,
for that matter, we're consuming
and we're contributing our money
to a system that has enormous
environmental implications.
Greenhouse gas emissions, water
pollution, soil degradation,
so many, many serious
consequences to the ecosystems.
And we're eating products that
are damaging to our bodies,
to our metabolism, to
our glucose regulation,
to our hormone balance, to
our cardiovascular health,
to our respiratory health,
to our mental health.
And we're also eating
products that are really
cruel to the animals involved.
And if we want to
be healthy, I think
it's a marvelous thing
that the food choices that
are healthiest
for us personally,
they give us the most strength,
the most vitality, the strongest
immune systems.
And therefore, the
least susceptibility
to pathogens and infectious
diseases, the strongest
respiratory system.
And so we can breathe
deeply with life
and enjoy the beauty of
simply breathing clean air.
Hopefully we have clean air.
And maybe then we're more
protective of our air
and more aware of it.
Less likely to
smoke, less likely
to allow polluters to prevail.
It's the same food choices that
are so much healthier for us
are also kinder to the animals.
Don't involve treating animals
with egregious cruelty,
and don't cause the
environmental distress
and damage that modern
meat production is
so good at producing.
So to me, that is a
win-win-win across the board.
And it's a sign--
I take it as a sign that this
is what we're meant to eat.
This is how we're meant to
live so that we can thrive
and others can thrive.
So that we can thrive
and we don't destroy
the world in the process.
We don't have to
conquer the world
and turn resources into
revenue and exploit and damage
everything in order
to prevail over life.
We can just be with life
and be with ourselves
in a way where we
respect life and we
live with reverence for the
life force in us and in others.
And we then protect the forests
instead of just see them
as board feet to be sold.
And we protect the
life forms that
are part of the
biodiversity of the planet
and part of the inextricably
interwovenness of our world.
We protect it.
And we protect it
because we love it.
And because it loves us back.
It feeds us.
It's our source.
And then we don't want
to pollute the oceans
and fill them with plastic.
Then we don't want to fill
our skies with toxic gases.
the atmosphere with gases that
are destabilizing our planet.
Then we want to live with
respect for ourselves and others
because it feels so good.